# 1420 Terry

"Our favorite holding period is forever." -Warren Buffet in a Berkshire report

Clearly the basement air mattress was not a long term solution.  It was early 2012 and I'd been back in the US a bit over a year.  With no meaningful debts and a low cost of living relative to my income, I'd been able to start saving meaningfully for the first time in my life.  I was making the maximum contributions to my retirements accounts but didn't have a solid place to live and wasn't benefiting from the mortgage tax deduction.

If you're thinking of buying investment property, there are a number of preconditions I'd strongly encourage you to meet:

* Buy a primary residence first.  The mortgage interest deduction is free money.
* Pay off bad debt, that is anything with punitive interest rates.  Credits cards and unsecured personal loans almost always fit the bill.  Some student loans do too, though subsidized Stafford loans often have very attractive rates that amount to free money.  It's unlikely any return you generate in the real estate market will be able to outrun credit card interest rates.
* Max out both your 401k and IRA contributions.  Index fund returns plus the tax advantage of a Roth account will be difficult to beat in the real estate market.

Digging a bit deeper Debt can be divided into buckets of good debt and bad debt.  You could even divide it up a bit more to include really good debt.



In short, you go to the real estate market once the options for easier money have exhausted themselves.  So, I certainly wasn't in a position where buying investment property made sense, but I was in need of a primary residence.
