# 2324 1st

"You can fondle the cube, but it will not respond." -Warren Buffet

In early 2013 I was living in the Hilton Midtown in New York.  It was limbo.  I was waiting for a formal offer to come through, working for a guy named Mike, who I deeply respect.  Suddenly everything changed.  I wasn't going to work for Mike anymore, instead John, who would report to Mike.  John was new at the company and didn't like me much.  He didn't think I could do the job and didn't want me working for him.  Then I found out Mike was on his way out.  There were other options at TIBCO, but it was past time to move on.

During my time in London, I'd worked closely with Andrew.  He'd helped sponsor my move there in the first place.  Andrew had in turn been sponsored and perhaps mentored a bit by Robin.  I knew Robin vaguely, but mostly by reputation.  He was now CEO at Terracotta.  At one point Terracotta had been a hot software startup.  Then it got bought by Software AG.  The plan at the time time was to run it somewhat independently.  There was a promise I've grown to mistrust, "get the best of both worlds - work at a startup, but with all the resources of a big company."

I joined Terracotta.  Roughly six months later it was merged into Software AG.  So much for startup culture...  On the bright side, there were a ton of ex-TIBCO people at Software AG since the companies were direct competitors.  So, it felt familiar and I could be effective easily.  The job also allowed me to move back to Seattle.  With Terracotta my role was national, but that quickly transitioned into a regional role covering the Western US with Software AG.

In April 2013, Graham was still in the 1420 Terry condo and I'd been getting updates on the rental waiting list.  Apparently I was pretty near the top.  Mortgage rates had briefly spiked, but then dropped back to 3.5%.  I decided to double down on my interest rate bet by buying another property.  My thinking at the time was that I'd get an inexpensive condo.  I could then live in that for a year as required by the mortgage before buying a more permanent house.  That would allow me to get a little more leverage at this amazing rate.

I reached out to Chad at Redfin.  They'd changed their model yet again.  He passed me on to an independent contractor, Nikki.  There were about 10 condos I wanted to look at.  The Redfin model at the time only allowed five to be looked at in one tour.  I'd have to schedule a second time to see the additional ones.  I grudgingly agreed and pruned my list a bit.

I met Nikki at [1610 Belmont Ave, #512](https://www.zillow.com/homes/1610-Belmont-Ave-Apt-512,-Seattle,-WA-98122_rb/).  It'd been listed for $275k five days before.  It's a 550 sqft 1 bedroom.  The building was new.  The location was great.  The finishes were fine, but the windows looked straight into the condo next door.  Today, in 2017, Zillow estimates it as worth $450k.

I then walked downstairs with Nikki where I was informed she couldn't drive me to the next property because she didn't have the proper insurance.  I believe she suggested I walk.  All that made the decision to fire Redfin pretty easy.  

The Redfin website is amazing and I still use it when searching properties.  The rebate model is pretty good, but you can negotiate that with an agent yourself.  Eventually they'll probably stop pivoting strategies every 12 months and settle down a bit.  I wouldn't be surprised if they disrupt the industry substantially at that point.  The mortgage industry has way too many hand signed pieces of paper.  DocuSign is a band aid on it.  I suspect the longer term solution is going to be an electronic network that supports listings, offers, underwriting, settlement and maybe even insurance claims.  Existing solutions like ACH, SWIFT and FIX all offer insight into how this could be done.

I'd been bitching to Scott about Redfin for ages.  We'd repeatedly had an over beer conversation about the conflicting incentives for agents.  A buyer wants to get the right home at the best possible price.  Given the high transaction costs, rational buyers review the alternatives patiently before transacting.  Agents on the other hand want the deal to close as quickly as possible for as much as possible.  This maximizes their commission.

Sellers have different incentives, but they aren't aligned with agents either.  A rational seller wants to sell for as much as possible.  If a mortgage payment is $2k, waiting an extra month to net an additional $10k in sales price is probably sensible.  Not so for a real estate agent.  While they'll net some additional commission, their goal is to transact as quickly as possible.  That's true, even if it means leaving money on the table.

For instance, agents really like to list properties below market value.  In the listing they'll then put some language like "reviewing offers next Tuesday."  The hope here is that they can get several offers in, then play them against each other to create a bidding war.  Sometimes it works and the bidding war can benefit a client.  However, this approach has a tendency to leave money on the table if a bidding war doesn't happen.  Regardless, it helps ensure a sale will happen quickly.

Scott proposed a way to get around these misaligned incentives.  Agents should be compensated with an hourly rate and no commission.  The buyer would pay their agent.  The seller would pay their agent.

Another lawyer Scott knew, Kirk, ran a small firm called Hampton West.  Scott introduced me to Kirk, who introduced me to his partner Chris.  We negotiated a commission rebate and were on our way.

In my endless wandering of Capitol Hill, I'd attended an open house at [211 N Summit](https://www.zillow.com/homes/211-Summit-Ave-E-.num.-n.dash.401,-Seattle,-WA-98102_rb/).  It was a somewhat dated condo building.  The unit was a penthouse 700sqft 1 bedroom with a fireplace, amazing views of the city and a rooftop deck nearly as large as the unit itself.  The asking price was $299,950.

Before I ever met Chris in person, he helped me put together an offer for asking price.  The open house I'd attended was very busy.  The unit eventually went for $325k with 8 different offers.  One mystery is that they never countered.  I would have happily gotten into a bidding war for that condo, perhaps even exceeding the $325k price.  

I've seen this behavior again and again.  If I were the seller in this case, I'd be outraged.  By not coming back to me, the seller left money on the table in both the form of a potentially higher offer from me as well as a potentially even higher counter from one of their other buyers.  Given that they received 8 offers in less than a week, the unit was probably underpriced as well.

Today, in 2017, Zillow puts 211 Summit at $496k.

I gave Chris an list of 14 properties that grew to 22 as we searched around.  He checked which ones had rental caps and we disqualified those.  After looking at a bunch of places, I settled on [2100 3rd Ave #1204](https://www.zillow.com/homes/for_sale/2100-3rd-Ave-.num.1204,-seattle_rb).  This was a 783sqft 1 bedroom in a building from 1973.  The building had dated a bit, but it was right downtown and had good views.  It needed work.  The asking price was $248,000.  We put together an offer for asking and went back and forth with the sellers agent a bit.   The condo eventually sold for $248,500.  This is another case where I really don't understand what happened.  The seller could easily have negotiated me up using their other offer.  They didn't even try.

As we were negotiating the seller raised the issue of my proposed 5% down financing.  
