# 616 N Oakes

> He scoured the suburbs of Paris and eventually discovered a villa for sale on the hillside above Fontenay-aux-Roses, standing in a lonely spot close to the Fort and far from all neighbours.  This was the answer to his dreams, for in this district which had so far remained unspoilt by rampaging Parisians, he would be safe from molestation: the wretched state of communications, barely maintained by a comical railway at the far end of the town and a few little trams which came and went as they pleased, reassured him on this point.  Thinking of the new existence he was going to fashion for himself, he felt a glow of pleasure at the idea that here it would be too far out for the tidal wave of Parisian life to reach him, and yet near enough for the proximity of the capital to strengthen him in his solitude.  For, since a man has only to know he cannot get to a certain spot to be seized with a desire to go there, by not entirely barring the way back he was guarding against any hankering after human society, any nostalgic regrets. -Joris-Karl Huysmans, Against Nature

To most Seattleites, Tacoma is merely the "tac" in Seatac, or perhaps, that place where the traffic gets all mucked up while driving between Seattle and Portland.  Surprisingly, it's a city in it own right as well.  At the beginning of the 20th century Seattle, Tacoma and Olympia were all vying to be the dominant city on Puget Sound.  Seattle won.  Olympia got the consolation prize of being the state capitol.  Tacoma lost.

The city is filled with relics from better days.  The downtown has a variety of grand old crumbling structures, including an abandoned Elks lodge that McMenamins is refurbishing.  The Rust mansion is appropriately named both for the man who constructed it and its current state.  As of 2017, the downtown has a vacant Countrywide office that looks as if it could have closed yesterday.  Countrywide imploded in 2007.

With rents in Seattle increasing, low wage workers have fled the city.  A decade ago they fled north, building up areas like Shoreline and Everett.  Today even Bothell is a relatively affluent suburb.  More recently the development has started in the south as well.  One of the most visible examples of that is Point Ruston, a mixed use development along Puget Sound in Tacoma that was built on a Superfund site.  As of 2017, a 3 bedroom penthouse condo is available there for the bargain price of $1m.

The Port of Tacoma is a major employer.  As the Port of Seattle increasingly turns down business for environmental reasons, there seems to be opportunity for the ports further south.  There's also a paper mill, responsible for the "Tacoma Aroma," one of many stigmas associated with the city.  To the south, Joint Base Louis McCord (JBLM) employs tens of thousands.

Tacoma has lost many of its major businesses.  Weyerhaeuser, originally founded in Tacoma moved their headquarters to nearby Federal Way in the 1970s.  In 2016 they shuttered that office and moved to downtown Seattle.  Similarly, Russel Investments was headquartered in downtown Tacoma until 2010.  They moved into the building that briefly served as Washington Mutual's headquarters before they imploded in the credit crunch.

Bizarrely, there's an increasing amount of NIMBY-ism in Tacoma.  The population at large seems to believe the local economy is far more robust than it is.  In 2016 the question of whether to open a methanol plant in the industrial area by the port was voted down as a ballot measure.  That might be fine if there were other employers in place, but there aren't.  Every morning I-5 northbound is packed with panel trucks and pickup trucks as laborers head to Seattle for the day.

Tacoma has an inordinate number of coffee shops, breweries and weird little shops that could only exist in the Pacific Northwest.  The rents are low enough that strange and marginal business can survive.  In 2016, 6th Ave was a great example of that.  6th is a five block long strip of bars, coffeeshops and oddities.  At the time my favorites along there included a pizza place called Half Pint.  Next door was Sluggo Brewing, equal parts used bike shop, brewery, bar and arcade.  Down the street Bluebeard Coffee, Ice Cream Social, Masa for Mexican food, a crystal and incense shop, and game shop rounded out the neighborhood a bit.

6th Ave in 2016 reminded me a lot of Broadway in Seattle circa 2000.  It had a good mix of shops and the rents were low enough that it had a good mix of characters too.  It's rare to see aspiring novelists hanging out in coffeeshops in cities where the rent requires a six figure income.
